At this point we now we're fully
leaving behind all of the unsharing.
We won't run unshare again in this class.
At this point, I'm gonna assume that
you're convinced that Docker is wholly
unnecessary, and therefore Docker
is totally necessary to you, right?
Let's go ahead and just start running
containers and just kind of getting you
really comfortable with what Docker is and
start using it.
So I'm gonna say docker run, and
I'm gonna say --interactive.
We've been doing this, this entire time,
but I just tended to shorten
that to --it or sorry, -it.
>> Brian Holt: But
--it is really is just --interactive,
inter, I can spell, active --tty.
That's what that -it is.
And then you could say alpine,
which is just the name of
the individual container,
that implicitly is latest.
That's when, if you don't put something
there, it'll just attach that for you.
I'm being super prescriptive in this
class, because if you take this course
in three years, which all this stuff
will be still entirely valid as is.
But sometimes the Linux distributions
can change a little bit and
then it messes people's up.
So I'm just gonna have you be explicit on
which versions you're using so that I can
guarantee you that all these commands are
gonna work now and in three years, right?
>> Brian Holt: So
that's why I'm gonna say alpine 3.19.1.
As of today, that would be latest,
I think, or at least as of last week.
But by the time you watch this,
it probably isn't.
>> Brian Holt: So that
--interactive --tty puts you into this, right?
It makes it interactive so
I can actually, interact with it.
If I don't put that in there,
and I just say run,
it notice it just goes straight
to the background, right?
>> Brian Holt: Because alpine actually
doesn't have any commands to find
in of itself.
It's just a distribution,
it has nothing in it.
It actually just starts and then stops
cuz it has nothing to do, right?
So that's why that -it is
super important there.
>> Brian Holt: And you also have to
give it something to do as well, right?
>> Brian Holt: Run,
what did I run do there?
Did I say I forgot run.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, you need run.
And that will drop you in your shell.
So just remember, every time you do run,
you are starting a new container.
That's important to know
because people get frustrated.
It's like, how do I interact with
the same container that is exec?
Exec will allow you to interact with
other containers or existing containers.
Run is always going to start
a new container for you.
I think even if I do that, yeah,
it'll just drop me in there, because,
by default, it'll run the shell, cuz that's
what is defined as its default action.
What happens if I wanted to do
something other than just run a shell?
This is really dumb, but what if I
just want it to run ls then finish?
You can do that, right?
You can just pass it whatever
command you want it to do.
I don't know why you would wanna do this,
but it's possible, right?
Sometimes you wanna use this for
something like,
let's say I wanna connect to a MongoDB
instance that's out in the cloud,
and I don't really wanna
install Mongo on my computer.
I'm sure many of you kind of felt that
before, you can actually just run a Mongo
container and
have that connect to the thing.
So you actually running a container
that's connecting to the network.
You can do all the stuff you need to do.
And then you can exit and
it'll remove everything.
So you actually never have to
install Mongo which is cool.
Stuff like that.
>> Brian Holt: So this was done on Alpine.
What happens if we do
this on ubuntu:jammy?
You can see it's different.
Not a lot different,
but slightly different.
>> Brian Holt: Which is kinda cool,
cuz this is running on Ubuntu instead of
running on Alpine
>> Brian Holt: What happens if you do
wanna run something in the background?
Well, you can say docker run, --detach.
Or for short, you can just say dit,
ubuntu:jammy.
>> Brian Holt: This will
throw it into the background.
This is actually what it called it.
So if I say Docker PS now,
you can see that I have jammy
running in the background.
So this container is still living on.
It's living on in the background.
And so now,
because I didn't give it a name.
You can either call it vigilant_brattain,
which is the random name that assigned it
or you can use the hash as well,
which is totally fine.
Or you can use this mini hash,
which I think is the first 10
numbers of it or whatever.
>> Brian Holt: You can see it's
just hanging out doing bash so
it's not doing anything.
It's just hanging out in the background,
yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Is there any reason besides
debugging to go into a running container?
>> Brian Holt: Is there any reason to
go into a running container besides
debugging?
If I'm running a thousand Kubernetes, or
a thousand container cluster out there,
probably not.
Probably even a bad idea to connect
directly to your containers, right?
You wanna get that from Datadog or
wherever you're aggregating
all of your information from.
But if I'm just messing around and
doing development and hopping around all
my containers and popping on my database
container to connect to the client and
then popping over to my app container
to see, all that kind of stuff.
For all that stuff running locally.
Yeah, I'm all messing around with all of
my containers out in production almost
never.
So there's another thing you can do
as well, which is docker attach.
So if I do this, docker attach to that.
Because this container
is just hanging out,
this actually allowed me to connect
to the same instance of it as well.
So it's not actually starting a new
Docker process or a new Bash process.
It's not starting a new Bash or
anything like that.
You can see I'm actually
connected to the same one.
So Docker attach is different than Exec
because Exec is actually going to execute
something new on your container.
Docker attaches is basically like, hey,
just attach me to what's already running.
In this particular case,
doesn't really matter, right?
We're both connecting to Bash, but
imagine if you're running like
Postgres on your container.
If I say docker attach, it's going to
attach me to the process that's actually
running the server,
which may not be what you want, right?
It's just gonna show you logs
that will not be interactive.
If I wanna actually connect to the
container and not be directly connected to
that process, I'll have to docker
exec to get into that particular one.
So the other reason I bring that up is
that does confuse people sometimes with
like, hey, I just wanna get on
the container and mess around with Bash,
I don't wanna be connected to
the database process, right?
That's why attaches to get on
to what's existing and running,
Exec will run a new process for you.
Okay, I'm gonna exit.
I'm gonna say, Docker kill, and again,
I can say either blah, vigilant_brattain.
I can say this which is the
shorthand or I can go up here and
I can grab the whole thing.
Any one of these will work.
>> Brian Holt: It was not running because
I exited here, cuz I attached to it,
right?
So docker image, if I say ls,
you can see here I have,
these are all of the images I've pulled.
You can see I have stuff
in here from weeks ago.
>> Brian Holt: Communities web,
I got all sorts of stuff on here.
So that'll show you
the images that you have.
If I say docker container ls,
this should be all the containers
that I have not actually got
removed all of their remnants,
all of their logs and all that kind
of stuff, I think that's the case.
Yeah, just manage the individual
containers that are running at
the moment
>> Brian Holt: But
that's why we always there
it is docker ps --all.
Yeah, you can see here I have a bunch
of stuff like, you can see even from
this class, every time that I'm
not putting --rm in there,
it's keeping all these remnants laying
around, which can add up after time.
I think if I say docker prune,
I've got to remember now, docker.
System prune, container, prune.
Container, prune, I think you're right.
Yeah, so
this will remove all the information for
stopped containers that I have.
And you can see here bunch
of stuff just freed up.
I removed 140 megabytes of just
stuff laying around, right?
And so now if I say dash, dash, all.
Now it's nothing in there, right?
So that's why prune is nice for
that as well.
That's why I almost always
do docker run --rm.
>> Brian Holt: Ubuntu jammy.
>> Brian Holt: So I ran that.
I just put it in the background.
I'm gonna kill it really quick.
>> Brian Holt: And now if I say docker ps
--all, notice it doesn't show up in here.
That --rm is what keeps
it from showing up there.
So if I'm just churning
through a bunch of stuff and
not really caring about why stuff exits,
I always put that --rm on there, so
I don't have to remember to
run prune every so often.
Some people that know will have a cron
job that just runs prune once a week or
something like that.
I don't use Docker that much, so I don't
typically do it, but if I did this whole
process without the --rm,
it would keep all that stuff around.
>> Brian Holt: And then, yeah notice
I put a name on here of my-ubuntu.
Notice that this is not a randomly
generated name anymore.
It's called my-ubuntu.
That's just helpful for
me to remember what I called stuff.
As opposed to being randomly generated.
Which by the way,
all this stuff I'm showing you,
it all shows up in here as well.
This is just a visual
representation of Docker PS and
Docker images that I'm showing you.
It all just shows up here.
But there is a lot of stuff you can do
here, you can figure how much resources it
gets, how many processes you can run,
blah blah blah, that all exists here.
Resources maybe?
Yeah, see this is what you configure here,
is all gonna translate into c groups,
which is cool, right?
They definitely hide about, they're not
allowing you to control how many PIDs that
show up in here, right, but you could.